hi I'm
Carolia and today I want to talk about
judgment moving beyond judgment feels to
me like a
critical step for Humanity to
take it means that when we look out and
the world at the things that are going
on we no longer perceiving them as good
or bad even as right or
wrong but we look out at them and we see
them for what they
are and we see the results that are
occurring as a result of those things
okay see judgment is so
ingrained emic to The Human Condition
that to
perceive without
judgment seems like an impossibility
until it happens to
you or even another way of looking at it
is that until you perceive without
judgment you don't realize how judgment
was a core way that you were perceiving
prior to
that and for me it comes and goes a lot
like when I had an Awakening experience
in 2004 I was perceiving without
judgment
because one way to to what's waking up
mean generally we perceive the world
through our minds okay and our minds
have thoughts and beliefs and ideas and
judgments and assumptions about the way
things should be or shouldn't be or
whatever and so we perceive the world
through that
filter when you wake up or as you're
waking
up there is no you don't perceive
through your mind anymore it it's just
perception just perception perceiving
that which
is so I had moments of it of just
perception and it's
extraordinary just
extraordinary and then after the
psychosis literally woke up you know the
psy Ward and I was out of just
perception and right back in perceiving
through my mind again and with
perceiving through my
mind all of a sudden I was aware of how
extraordinarily judgmental I was about
everything other people the world the
way it was functioning and myself and I
think I lived with that really severe
judgment for I don't know about another
three or four years and it made life
horrendous like the degree of suffering
because of that judgment was enormous
but what made it worse was because I had
had an experience of just perception and
I knew how it felt so being back and
judgment was
like now what I find is that I I flip in
and out and one of the first Clues
that
I'm more in mind than say just
perception is when I notice I'm judging
all righty when someone says something
or does something and I judge it and it
happens so fast it's like ah and but I
catch it it's like there's an awareness
and to catch it
and I can let it's like I can let the
the Judgment go and in the letting go of
Judgment of seeing through judgment
perception
AR perception is always there it's just
that the filter of judgment or mind is
in front of it but I can kind of Let It
Go and then it's just perception
again the interesting thing about
externally judging things which we most
of us do all the time constant judgment
good or bad good or
bad is that it's I've noticed in myself
and I'm not even going to assume that
it's the same for all of you cuz I'm
just noticing in myself that the degree
with which I'm judging the external
World tends to mirror the degree with
which I'm judging myself so when I
first came out of the psychosis and
after the
Awakening I was judging the external
world so much and I didn't realize at
the time but it was a reflection of the
unconscious judgment I was passing on
myself
okay so then once I started to realize
that it's like a right the extent to
which I judge externally is the extent
to which I judge internally it became
like a way for me to tell where I was
sitting with myself and now what I'm
noticing is that because I am perceiving
life less and less through the Judgment
filter it's because I am judging myself
less and less and less and in the
dissolvement of that judgment filter
what arises is pure acceptance right
pure acceptance also goes by another
word and that word is love
anytime you judge externally or anytime
you judge yourself you are not loving
the world or you're not loving
yourself and so when we talk about love
is all you need and we're only ever
coming from either love or fear and then
all we need to do is love the world all
of that you know new age woo woo hippy
stuff it has a solid concrete base in
reality in
there dropping judgment
means stepping into full acceptance
which means coming into a place of Love
which in essence becomes
just
perception and my experience or the
experience I have of just perception is
it is love it's it's one and the
same right now I'm just tuning in you
see I'm just allowing myself to drop
back down into the field of being
because it felt like I was beginning
to lose where my center it's like I was
shifting into my mind more
okay it's a
judgment when we're
activists when we're interacting with
social and political
issues if we coming from a place of
judgment it has certain
results it perpetrates the myth of
Separation it means
that when we notice that we're judging
that we're not coming from a place of
Love or just
perception of course the danger in this
and I fell into this trap is then we
judge ourselves for
judging right this is this is the layers
that hip
him I'm not sure I got
how to undo that as such except to just
keep noticing it and letting it go and
noticing it and letting it go so when
you
notice that you are
judging the external
world take a moment to reflect or ask
does this mirror how I judging how I'm
judging
myself when you notice yourself judging
the external world and all
yourself notice if you then judge
yourself for judging
not just just notice that
right what I have noticed is that as I
drop judgment as I drop judgment as I
drop
judgment it's like there's a purity of
action that
arises so that means that I'm then
coming from that ground of
being and it has a different feeling a
different space whereas if I am in a
judgment space and I take action from
that space of judgment that Purity is
not
there and what it feels like is because
I am acting from judgment that the
consequences of my action will be
different if I'm acting from the ground
of being it can be the same action but
the consequences of my action will be
different and this is a subtle Nuance
that I think it feels I don't want to
say I think it's a subtle Nuance that
feels like it's really important for us
to be able to discern that when we act
in the world when we're taking action on
social political economic
issues the place that we're acting from
it's just as crucial as the action that
we're taking
okay when we act from a place of
judgment we're perpetrating
judgment when we act from a place of
perception the ground of being from love
we're perpetrating
love and this is why when my friend
asked me that question he asked me a
question on my video how does empty
emptiness make judgment on environmental
issues emptiness doesn't there is no
judgment but it doesn't mean there's no
action either okay what it means is the
action is coming from a different
place I'll look at that aspect in
another
video for now
though this week maybe just contemplate
just
notice how often you judge things
and then when you notice the judging
notice if you're judging the
judging just see what happens if you go
down that rabbit
hole so I'm Carolia and there will be
more of these videos